docs: Revise user-input topic to improve readability and clarity (#38961)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/user-input.md

<code-example path="user-input/src/app/click-me.component.ts" region="click-me-button" header="src/app/click-me.component.ts"></code-example>

{@a click}

An event binding consists of two parts:

* On the left of the equals sign is the _target_ of the binding, which is enclosed in parentheses.
In this example, the target is the button's click event.

* On the right of the equals sign is the _template statement_.
This statement is what responds to the event.
In this example, the response calls the component's `onClickMe` method.

The identifiers in a template statement belong to a specific context, called the _execution context_.
Often, this context is the Angular component controlling the template.
For example, the preceding example belongs to a larger component.

<code-example path="user-input/src/app/click-me.component.ts" region="click-me-component" header="src/app/click-me.component.ts"></code-example>

When the user clicks the button, Angular calls the `onClickMe` method from `ClickMeComponent`.

<div class="alert is-important">

When writing a binding, be aware of a template statement's execution context.

</div>

{@a binding-to-user-input-events}

> ## Passing events

Reviewer: I might say here "Getting event data" or "Event arguments"

> Many DOM events contain information that the component might need.
> You can pass that information to the component by passing the event to the component event handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All DOM events emit an event object that contains additional information about what happened.
You can pass that information to the component by specifying an event argument with the component's event handler.
```
* _All_ DOM events emit some type of `Event` object
* I would word this around the information that the event object contains rather than the consuming component.
* Can potentially avoid using both "pass"/"passing" by framing this around specifying a function argument

## Passing the `$event` object

One way to handle events is to pass the event object, `$event` to a component handler.

<code-example path="user-input/src/app/keyup.components.ts" region="key-up-component-1-template" header="src/app/keyup.components.ts (template v.1)"></code-example>

In this example, when a user presses and releases a key, the `keyup` event occurs.
Angular passes a corresponding DOM event object in the `$event` variable.
Angular then passes that variable as a parameter to the component's `onKey()` method.

> <code-example path="user-input/src/app/keyup.components.ts" region="key-up-component-1-class" header="src/app/keyup.components.ts (class v.1 - typed )"></code-example>

Reviewer: Another idle thought: it's unfortunate that this example uses `keyup` instead of `keydown` because `keydown` is the preferred way of handling keyboard interaction

The properties of an `$event` object vary depending on the type of DOM event.

> For example, a mouse event includes different information than an input box editing event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a mouse event includes different information than a keyboard event.
```
Probably easier to convey mouse vs. keyboard than mouse vs. text entry

All [standard DOM event objects](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event) have a `target` property.
This property references the element that raised the event.
In this example, `target` refers to the [`<input>` element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLInputElement).
The `event.target.value` property returns the current contents of that element.

After each call, the `onKey()` method appends the contents of the input box value to the list in the component's `values` property, followed by a separator character, `|`.
The [interpolation](guide/interpolation) displays the accumulating input box changes from the `values` property.

For example, if a user enters the letters `a`, `b`, and `c`, and then backspaces to remove them one by one, the user interface displays the following:

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src='generated/images/guide/user-input/keyup1-anim.gif' alt="key up 1">
</div>

{@a keyup1}

> ## Using a template reference variable

Reviewer: So, this section is conceptually kind of awkward, mainly because it doesn't fundamentally have to do with handling events. Instead, it more saying: "Hey, if you use template variables in this way that you'd expect should work, it won't actually work unless you do this weird workaround by adding a dummy event handler."

It makes sense why it exists- I'd guess enough people complained about this unexpected behavior that someone said "Well, we can't change the behavior, so let's just make sure we document it well." I think this content would make more sense in the docs for template variables, in a section like "When do bindings over template variables update?"

Angular updates bindings only if the application responds to asynchronous events, such as keystrokes.

</div>

The template is completely self contained. It doesn't bind to the component and the component does nothing.
However, when a user types in the box, the user interface still updates as expected:

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src='generated/images/guide/user-input/keyup-loop-back-anim.gif' alt="loop back">
</div>

This example binds the `keyup` event to the number `0`.
While the statement does nothing useful, it satisfies Angular's requirement so that Angular updates the screen.

Often, it is easier to get to the input box with the template reference variable than to go through the `$event` object.
The following code refactors the previous `keyup` example that uses a template reference variable to get the user's input.

<code-example path="user-input/src/app/keyup.components.ts" region="key-up-component-2" header="src/app/keyup.components.ts (v2)"></code-example>

One advantage of this approach is that the component gets clean data values from the view.
The component no longer requires knowledge of the `$event` and its structure.
{@a key-event}

> ## Filtering events

Reviewer: I might leave this as "Keyboard event filtering" since this feature is genuinely limited to keyboard events. We could conceivably expand the syntax to other event types in the future, but I honestly don't see it happening any time soon enough to make this more general.

Sometimes, you want your application to respond only if an event contains specific data.
For example, the `(keyup)` event handler responds to *every keystroke*.
You might want to modify this behavior so the handler only responds when the user presses a specific key.
A common use case is responding to the _Enter_ key, because it signals that the user finished typing.

You can filter keystroke events by binding to Angular's `keyup.enter` pseudo-event.
Then Angular calls the event handler only when the user presses _Enter_.

<code-example path="user-input/src/app/keyup.components.ts" region="key-up-component-3" header="src/app/keyup.components.ts (v3)"></code-example>

The following is an example of how a user might engage with this application.

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src='generated/images/guide/user-input/keyup3-anim.gif' alt="key up 3">
</div>

> ## Binding to multiple events

Reviewer: Could we just completely omit this section? It looks like the original was set up to say "and here's another example!", when I feel like the relevant content has been sufficiently covered.
